pages/docs/frontmatter.md, before:

---
title: Frontmatter
description:
---

# {% $markdoc.frontmatter.title %}

With Markdoc, you can use frontmatter to apply metadata to your documents. Markdoc isn't opinionated when it comes to frontmatter, so you can use YAML, TOML, JSON, GraphQL—pretty much any data format you want.

## Examples

### YAML

```yaml
---
title: Authoring in Markdoc
description: Quickly author amazing content with Markdoc systax, a superset of Markdown.
date: 2022-04-01
---
```

### TOML

```toml
---
title       = "Authoring in Markdoc"
description = "Quickly author amazing content with Markdoc systax, a superset of Markdown."
date        = "2022-04-01"
---
```

### JSON

```json
---
{
  "title": "Authoring in Markdown",
  "description": "Quickly author amazing content with Markdoc systax, a superset of Markdown.",
  "date": "2022-04-01"
}
---
```

### GraphQL

```graphql
---
{
  page {
    title
    description
    date
  }
}
---
```

## Access frontmatter attributes

To access your frontmatter content within your document, you have to pass the values as [variables](/docs/variables), just as you would otherwise.

First, parse your document to get access to the frontmatter content

{% markdoc-example %}

```js
const doc = `
---
title: My title
---

# {% $frontmatter.title %} 
`;

const ast = Markdoc.parse(doc);
```

{% /markdoc-example %}

Then, parse the frontmatter attribute using your preferred format and pass it to your `variables` config.

```js
import yaml from 'js-yaml'; // or 'toml', etc.

const frontmatter = ast.attributes.frontmatter
  ? yaml.load(ast.attributes.frontmatter)
  : {};

const config = {
  variables: {
    frontmatter
  }
};
```

You can then access your frontmatter values from the `$frontmatter` variable

{% side-by-side %}

{% markdoc-example %}

```md
# {% $frontmatter.title %}
```

{% /markdoc-example %}

# {% $markdoc.frontmatter.title %}

{% /side-by-side %}

Commit message:

Doc improvements (#6)
* Doc improvements

* Update pages/docs/rendering/react.md

Co-authored-by: Mike Fix <62121649+mfix-stripe@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update pages/docs/rendering/react.md

Co-authored-by: Mike Fix <62121649+mfix-stripe@users.noreply.github.com>

* Addressing feedback

* Punchy language

* Minor edits to frontmatter

* Fixing page title

* Addressing feedback

Co-authored-by: Mike Fix <62121649+mfix-stripe@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/docs/frontmatter.md, after:

---
title: Frontmatter
description:
---

# {% $markdoc.frontmatter.title %}

Frontmatter is used to apply page-level metadata to Markdoc documents, like `title` and `description`. Markdoc doesn't have an opinion about how your frontmatter is formatted, you can use YAML, TOML, JSON, GraphQL -- pretty much any data format you want.

## Examples

While not a comprehensive list, the examples below give you an idea of how you can structure frontmatter in various formats.
### YAML

```yaml
---
title: Authoring in Markdoc
description: Quickly author amazing content with Markdoc systax, a superset of Markdown.
date: 2022-04-01
---
```

### TOML

```toml
---
title       = "Authoring in Markdoc"
description = "Quickly author amazing content with Markdoc systax, a superset of Markdown."
date        = "2022-04-01"
---
```

### JSON

```json
---
{
  "title": "Authoring in Markdown",
  "description": "Quickly author amazing content with Markdoc systax, a superset of Markdown.",
  "date": "2022-04-01"
}
---
```

### GraphQL

```graphql
---
{
  page {
    title
    description
    date
  }
}
---
```

## Access frontmatter values

To access frontmatter content in your document, you have to pass the values to Markdoc as [variables](/docs/variables).

### Parse the document

Parse your document to access the frontmatter content:

{% markdoc-example %}

```js
const doc = `
---
title: My title
---

# {% $frontmatter.title %} 
`;

const ast = Markdoc.parse(doc);
```

{% /markdoc-example %}

### Parse the frontmatter

Parse the frontmatter attribute using your preferred format and pass it to your `variables` config.

```js
import yaml from 'js-yaml'; // or 'toml', etc.

const frontmatter = ast.attributes.frontmatter
  ? yaml.load(ast.attributes.frontmatter)
  : {};

const config = {
  variables: {
    frontmatter
  }
};
```

### Use frontmatter values

After passing the parsed frontmatter to `variables`, you can access the values using `$frontmatter`:

{% side-by-side %}

{% markdoc-example %}

```md
# {% $frontmatter.title %}
```

{% /markdoc-example %}

# {% $markdoc.frontmatter.title %}

{% /side-by-side %}
